
General remarks:

RNNTagger is a part-of-speech tagger and lemmatizer for 34 languages:
    bulgarian  french     korean              old-icelandic
    catalan    galician   latin               old-italian
    czech      german     middle-dutch        polish
    danish     greek      middle-english      portuguese
    dutch      hindi      middle-high-german  romanian
    english    hungarian  norwegian           russian
    estonian   icelandic  old-french          slovak
    finnish    italian    old-greek           slovenian
    spanish    swahili    early-new-high-german

RNNTagger was written in Python3 and uses the PyTorch machine learning
library.


Installation:

Required software: Linux, Python3, Perl, PyTorch, (CUDA)

In order to use RNNTagger, you need to install Python3, Perl and
PyTorch.  It is highly recommended to use a computer with a recent
Nvidia graphics card and to install the CUDA library. Without graphics
card support, the software will be very slow.

Using the tagger with other operating systems (e.g. Windows) should be
possible if the shell scripts (files with extension ".sh") are
replaced by e.g. batch files on Windows.


Usage:

After unpacking the software archive, you can use the software as follows:

> cd RNNTagger
> echo "cetero censeo carthaginem esse delendam." > file
> cmd/rnn-tagger-latin.sh file
cetero	11B---G---1	ceterus
censeo	3-KA1--4---	censeo
carthaginem	11C---D2---	carthago
esse	3-NH1------	sum
delendam	2-KO-1D2---	deleo
.	SENT	.

The processing consists of three steps:

The included simple tokenizer first splits the input text into
"tokens" (i.e. words, punctuation, parentheses etc.) Each token is
written on a separate line and each sentence is followed by an empty
line.

The part-of-speech (POS) tagger reads the token sequence and assigned a POS
tag to each token.

The lemmatizer extracts all word-POS tag combinations from the tagged
token sequence, computes the lemma for each pair, and then looks up
the precomputed lemma for each token-tag pair of the POS tagged
token sequence.

The Korean tagger uses a special XML-based output format which shows
the eojeols and their components.

Informationon on the part-of-speech tagsets is available via the URLs
listed in the file "Tagset-Information".
